---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/0-vault/1-notas-literais/interesses-de-pesquisa/o-que-a-ia-significa-para-a-criatividade-humana/","tags":["interessesgerais","wiredetal","interessesdepesquisa","meta","promptgpt3","otimistarealista"],"dgHomeLink":true,"dgShowLocalGraph":true,"dgShowFileTree":true,"dgEnableSearch":true}
---

# o que a IA significa para a criatividade humana
## criado em: 11:20 11-01-2023

### Relacionado
- palavras-chave: #interessesgerais  #wiredetal  #interessesdepesquisa #meta #promptgpt3  #otimistarealista 
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/Interesses de Pesquisa/distopia feudal digital\|distopia feudal digital]]
- [[0 - VAULT/2 NOTAS PERMANENTES/gpt3\|gpt3]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/Interesses de Pesquisa/BERT\|BERT]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/Interesses de Pesquisa/racismo algorítmico\|racismo algorítmico]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/888/Santos, Milton\|Santos, Milton]]
- [[0 - VAULT/2 NOTAS PERMANENTES/IA ou não, é sempre cedo demais para soar o toque de morte da arte parte 2\|IA ou não, é sempre cedo demais para soar o toque de morte da arte parte 2]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/Interesses de Pesquisa/pode inteligencia virtual fazer arte\|pode inteligencia virtual fazer arte]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/Interesses de Pesquisa/midjourney\|midjourney]]
---
[fonte](https://www.wired.com/story/picture-limitless-creativity-ai-image-generators/)

# Picture Limitless Creativity at Your Fingertips
## Artificial intelligence can now make better art than most humans. Soon, these engines of wow will transform how we design just about everything.

The passage is talking about how artificial intelligence has advanced to a point where it can generate original works of art by using prompts from humans. This new breed of AI-generated images is astounding in its realism and depth of detail, and it allows people who are not professional artists to create unique images with ease. Millions of people are now using AI image generators to create more than 20 million images every day. The outputs of these AIs are based on billions of pictures made by humans, but the AI alters them in a way no human would think of. It also discusses how these new images raise questions about the future of human-made art and the capabilities of computers. The author predicts that AI will change how we design everything and no human artists will lose their jobs due to this new technology. The best applications of AI-generated images come from long conversations between humans and machines, and it is a result of many iterations, back and forth, and teamwork.

The passage is discussing the excitement behind using AI image generators to create new and unique images. Many people are drawn to these images because of their beauty, surprise and novelty, and it has become similar to visiting a personal museum. The AI-generated images can be used for personal reasons, such as art therapy, or for utilitarian purposes, such as creating images for presentations. The images created with AI are not meant to replace human-made art, but rather they open up possibilities for more art in different places, like emails, text messages, blogs, books and social media. The art generated by AI is in the creative process itself, exploring the possibility space of human imagination. Users explore this space like a photographer, hunting for discoveries by tweaking their prompts.

The passage is discussing the process of creating AI-generated images with tools like DALL-E, Stable Diffusion, and Midjourney. The process involves using short prompts, similar to a tweet, to generate an initial grid of images, which are then iteratively mutated and refined by adjusting the prompts and making specific requests to the AI. This process of refining the images through careful prompting is referred to as "magecraft" or "AI whispering" and is considered a fine-art skill. There are now tools and guides available to help people become proficient in this skill, and some experts even sell their successful prompts. This process can be a complex and time-consuming, but ultimately it can lead to high-quality images that are unique and cannot be replicated.

The article discuss about the AI image generation, which can generate striking images based on human-supplied prompts. The process of creating these images is called "prompting" where users try to guide the AI towards a specific image using specific words and phrases. People are excited about AI-generated images because they offer a new way to create art that is unique and unexpected, which can be used for various purposes such as creating images for presentations, as art therapy, or for personal use. The article also mentions that as the technology continues to improve, the AI will eventually be able to generate 3D worlds and images that will be used in the metaverse, this technology is advancing faster than one can keep up with and that the true power of AI image generators is in the 3D world.

The main focus of the text is about the advancements of AI image generators and their potential impacts on human creativity. It explains that current versions of AI image generators are limited in their prompts, as they only process a small amount of text at a time, and that behind every great AI-generated image is a short "magic spell" that creates it. The author talks about the art of prompting, which is the process of guiding the work of AI to create a specific image and the skill that has emerged to guide this process. It's also highlighted that the AI-generated art will start to appear in various places and this new art is between painting and photography, as it lives in a possibility space as large as painting and drawing but you move through the space like a photographer. Lastly, it stresses on the importance of not fearing AI but thinking about what it teaches us and the most important thing AI image generators teach us is that Creativity is something that can be synthesized, amplified, and manipulated and it is independent of consciousness.
