---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/0-vault/1-notas-literais/anelo/latam-2023-2-5-section-5-comments/","tags":["python","ANELO","chatgpt"],"dgHomeLink":true,"dgShowLocalGraph":true,"dgShowFileTree":true,"dgEnableSearch":true,"noteIcon":""}
---

# LATAM 2023 - 2.5 Section 5 – Comments

## criado em: 
-  04-05-2023 - 10:22

### Conteúdo Relacionado
- notas: [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM Bem-vindo ao Fundamentos do Python\|LATAM Bem-vindo ao Fundamentos do Python]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM 2023-11 Seção 1 - Introdução à programação\|LATAM 2023-11 Seção 1 - Introdução à programação]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM 2023 2 Seção 1 - O Programa Olá, mundo\|LATAM 2023 2 Seção 1 - O Programa Olá, mundo]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM 2023 2 S 2 - Operadores - ferramentas de manipulação de dados\|LATAM 2023 2 S 2 - Operadores - ferramentas de manipulação de dados]]
- [[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM 2023 - 3.1 Section 1 – Making decisions in Python\|LATAM 2023 - 3.1 Section 1 – Making decisions in Python]]
- tags: #python #ANELO 
- Fontes & Links: 

---

> Welcome to section five where we will share with you a few comments on comments. You will learn here why it is important to document your code, and why you should leave comments. You will also learn how to do it, and when comments are considered good practice. Let's go!

## 2.5.1 Comments – why, when, and how?

You may want to put in a few words addressed not to Python but to humans, usually to explain to other readers of the code how the tricks used in the code work, or the meanings of the variables, and eventually, in order to keep stored information on who the author is and when the program was written.

A remark inserted into the program, which is omitted at runtime, is called a comment.

How do you leave this kind of comment in the source code? It has to be done in a way that won't force Python to interpret it as part of the code.

Whenever Python encounters a comment in your program, the comment is completely transparent to it ‒ from Python's point of view, this is only one space (regardless of how long the real comment is).

In Python, a comment is a piece of text that begins with a # (hash) sign and extends to the end of the line.

If you want a comment that spans several lines, you have to put a hash in front of them all. Just like here:

# This program evaluates the hypotenuse c.
# a and b are the lengths of the legs.
a = 3.0
b = 4.0
c = (a ** 2 + b ** 2) ** 0.5  # We use ** instead of a square root.
print("c =", c)
 

Good, responsible developers describe each important piece of code, for example, by explaining the role of the variables. Although it must be stated that the best way of commenting variables is to name them in an unambiguous manner.

For example, if a particular variable is designed to store an area of some unique square, the name square_area will obviously be better than aunt_jane.

We say that the first name is self-commenting.
Completed 2.5.2 Marking fragments of code
2.5.2 Marking fragments of code

Comments may be useful in another respect ‒ you can use them to mark a piece of code that currently isn't needed for whatever reason. Look at the example below, if you uncomment the highlighted line, this will affect the output of the code:

# This is a test program.
x = 1
y = 2
# y = y + x
print(x + y)
 

This is often done during the testing of a program, in order to isolate the place where an error might be hidden.

#### Tip

If you'd like to quickly comment or uncomment multiple lines of code, select the line(s) you wish to modify and use the following keyboard shortcut: CTRL + / (Windows) or CMD + / (Mac OS). It's a very useful trick, isn't it? Now experiment with the code in the editor.

Console

Completed 2.5.3   LAB   Comments
## 2.5.3   LAB   Comments
Scenario

The code in the editor contains comments. Try to improve it: add or remove comments where you find it appropriate (yes, sometimes removing a comment can make the code more readable), and change variable names where you think this will improve code comprehension.
  Note  

Comments are very important. They are used not only to make your programs easier to understand, but also to disable those pieces of code that are currently not needed (e.g., when you need to test some parts of your code only, and ignore others). Good programmers describe each important piece of code, and give self-commenting names to variables, as sometimes it is simply much better to leave information in the code.

It's good to use readable variable names, and sometimes it's better to divide your code into named pieces (e.g., functions). In some situations, it's a good idea to write the steps of computations in a clearer way.

One more thing: it may happen that a comment contains a wrong or incorrect piece of information ‒ you should never do that on purpose!

Console

Completed
2.5.4 SECTION SUMMARY
## 2.5.4 SECTION SUMMARY

    Comments can be used to leave additional information in code. They are omitted at runtime. The information left in the source code is addressed to human readers. In Python, a comment is a piece of text that begins with #. The comment extends to the end of the line.

    If you want to place a comment that spans several lines, you need to place # in front of them all. Moreover, you can use a comment to mark a piece of code that is not needed at the moment (see the last line of the snippet below), for example:

# This program prints
# an introduction to the screen.
print("Hello!")  # Invoking the print() function
# print("I'm Python.")
 

    Whenever possible and justified, you should give self-commenting names to variables, e.g., if you're using two variables to store the length and width of something, the variable names length and width may be a better choice than myvar1 and myvar2.

    It's important to use comments to make programs easier to understand, and to use readable and meaningful variable names in code. However, it's equally important not to use variable names that are confusing, or leave comments that contain wrong or incorrect information!

    Comments can be important when you are reading your own code after some time (trust us, developers do forget what their own code does), and when others are reading your code (they can help them understand what your programs do and how they do it more quickly).

---
# 2.6 Section 6 – Interaction with the user

>In this section you will learn how to talk to a computer: you will familiarize yourself with the input() function, perform type conversions, and learn how to use string operators.


## 2.6.1 The input() function

We're now going to introduce you to a completely new function, which seems to be a mirror reflection of the good old print() function.

Why? Well, print() sends data to the console.

The new function gets data from it.

print() has no usable result. The meaning of the new function is to return a **very usable result.**

The function is named input(). The name of the function says everything.

The input() function is able to read data entered by the user and to return the same data to the running program.

The program can manipulate the data, making the code truly interactive.

Virtually all programs read and process data. A program which doesn't get a user's input is a deaf program.

Take a look at our example:

print("Tell me anything...")
anything = input()
print("Hmm...", anything, "... Really?")
 

It shows a very simple case of using the input() function.

Note:

    The program prompts the user to input some data from the console (most likely using a keyboard, although it is also possible to input data using voice or image);
    the input() function is invoked without arguments (this is the simplest way of using the function); the function will switch the console to input mode; you'll see a blinking cursor, and you'll be able to input some keystrokes, finishing off by hitting the Enter key; all the inputted data will be sent to your program through the function's result;
    note: you need to assign the result to a variable; this is crucial ‒ missing out this step will cause the entered data to be lost;
    then we use the print() function to output the data we get, with some additional remarks.

Run the code and let the function show you what it can do for you.

## 2.6.2 The input() function with an argument

The input() function can do something else: it can prompt the user without any help from print().

We've modified our example a bit, look at the code:

anything = input("Tell me anything...")
print("Hmm...", anything, "...Really?")
 

Note:

    the input() function is invoked with one argument ‒ it's a string containing a message;
    the message will be displayed on the console before the user is given an opportunity to enter anything;
    input() will then do its job.

This variant of the input() invocation simplifies the code and makes it clearer.

## 2.6.3 The result of the input() function

We've said it already, but it must be unambiguously stated once again: the result of the input() function is a string.

A string containing all the characters the user enters from the keyboard. It is not an integer or a float.

This means that you mustn't use it as an argument of any arithmetic operation, e.g., you can't use this data to square it, divide it by anything, or divide anything by it.

anything = input("Enter a number: ")
something = anything ** 2.0
print(anything, "to the power of 2 is", something)
 
## 2.6.4 The input() function – prohibited operations

Look at the code in the editor. Run it, enter any number, and press Enter.

Console

What happens? Python should have given you the following output:

Traceback (most recent call last):
File ".main.py", line 4, in *module*
something = anything ** 2.0
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for ** or pow(): 'str' and 'float'
Output

The last line of the sentence explains everything ‒ you tried to apply the ** operator to 'str' (string) accompanied with 'float'.

This is prohibited.

This should be obvious - can you predict the value of "to be or not to be" raised to the power of 2?

We can't. Python can't, either.

Have we fallen into a deadlock? Is there a solution to this issue? Of course there is.

## 2.6.5 Type casting (type conversions)

Python offers two simple functions to specify a type of data and solve this problem ‒ here they are: int() and float().

Their names are self-commenting:

    the int() function takes one argument (e.g., a string: int(string)) and tries to convert it into an integer; if it fails, the whole program will fail too (there is a workaround for this situation, but we'll show you this a little later);
    the float() function takes one argument (e.g., a string: float(string)) and tries to convert it into a float (the rest is the same).

This is very simple and very effective. Moreover, you can invoke any of the functions by passing the input() results directly to them. There's no need to use any variable as an intermediate storage.

We've implemented the idea in the editor ‒ take a look at the code.

Can you imagine how the string entered by the user flows from input() into print()?

Try to run the modified code. Don't forget to enter a valid number.

Check some different values, small and big, negative and positive. Zero is a good input, too.

Console


## 2.6.6 More about input() and type casting

Having a team consisting of the trio input()-int()-float() opens up lots of new possibilities.

You'll eventually be able to write complete programs, accepting data in the form of numbers, processing them and displaying the results.

Of course, these programs will be very primitive and not very usable, as they cannot make decisions, and consequently are not able to react differently to different situations.

This is not really a problem, though; we'll show you how to overcome it soon.

Our next example refers to the earlier program to find the length of a hypotenuse. Let's run it and make it able to read the lengths of the legs from the console.

Check out the editor window ‒ this is what it looks like now:

Console

The program asks the user for the lengths of both legs, evaluates the hypotenuse and prints the result. Run it and try to input some negative values.

The program, unfortunately, doesn't react to this obvious error. Let's ignore this weakness for now. We'll come back to it soon.

Note that in the program that you can see in the editor, the hypo variable is used for only one purpose ‒ to save the calculated value between the execution of the adjoining line of code.

As the print() function accepts an expression as its argument, you can remove the variable from the code.

Just like this:

Console

## 2.6.7 String operators

It's time to return to these two arithmetic operators: + and *.

We want to show you that they have a second function. They are able to do something more than just add and multiply.

We've seen them in action where their arguments are numbers (floats or integers, it doesn't matter).

Now we're going to show you that they can handle strings, too, albeit in a very specific way.

The + (plus) sign, when applied to two strings, becomes a concatenation operator:

string + string
 

It simply concatenates (glues) two strings into one. Of course, like its arithmetic sibling, it can be used more than once in one expression, and in such a context it behaves according to left-sided binding.

In contrast to its arithmetic sibling, the concatenation operator is not commutative, i.e., "ab" + "ba" is not the same as "ba" + "ab".

Don't forget ‒ if you want the + sign to be a concatenator, not an adder, you must ensure that both its arguments are strings.

You cannot mix types here.

This simple program shows the + sign in its second use:

Console

Note: using + to concatenate strings lets you construct the output in a more precise way than with a pure print() function, even if enriched with the end= and sep= keyword arguments.

Run the code and see if the output matches your predictions.
Replication

The * (asterisk) sign, when applied to a string and number (or a number and string, as it remains commutative in this position) becomes a replication operator:

string * number
number * string
 

It replicates the string the same number of times specified by the number.

For example:

    "James" * 3 gives "JamesJamesJames"
    3 * "an" gives "ananan"
    5 * "2" (or "2" * 5) gives "22222" (not 10!) 

#### Remember  

A number less than or equal to zero produces an empty string.

This simple program "draws" a rectangle, making use of an old operator (+) in a new role:
```python
print("+" + 10 * "-" + "+")
print(("|" + " " * 10 + "|\n") * 5, end="")
print("+" + 10 * "-" + "+")

```


Note the way in which we've used the parentheses in the second line of the code.

Try practicing to create other shapes or your own artwork!

## 2.6.8 Type conversions once again
str()

You already know how to use the int() and float() functions to convert a string into a number.

This type of conversion is not a one-way street. You can also convert a number into a string, which is way easier and safer ‒ this kind of operation is always possible.

A function capable of doing that is called str():

str(number)
 

To be honest, it can do much more than just transform numbers into strings, but that can wait for later.
The right-angle triangle again

Here is our "right-angle triangle" program again:

Console

We've modified it a bit to show you how the str() function works. Thanks to this, we can pass the whole result to the print() function as one string, forgetting about the commas.

You've made some serious strides on your way to Python programming.

You already know the basic data types, and a set of fundamental operators. You know how to organize the output and how to get data from the user. These are very strong foundations for Module 3. But before we move on to the next module, let's do a few labs, and recap all that you've learned in this section.

# 2.6.9   LAB   Simple input and output
Scenario

Your task is to complete the code in order to evaluate the results of four basic arithmetic operations.

The results have to be printed to the console.

You may not be able to protect the code from a user who wants to divide by zero. That's okay, don't worry about it for now.

Test your code ‒ does it produce the results you expect?

We won't show you any test data ‒ that would be too simple.

```python

# input a float value for variable a here
acido = float(input("input a float value for variable Acido here "))

# input a float value for variable b here
base = float(input("input a float value for variable Base here "))

# output the result of addition here
print(acido + base)

# output the result of subtraction here
print(acido - base)

# output the result of multiplication here
print(acido * base)

# output the result of division here
print(acido / base)

print("\nThat's all, folks!")

```


## 2.6.10   LAB   Operators and expressions
Scenario

Your task is to complete the code in order to evaluate the following expression:

The result should be assigned to y. Be careful ‒ watch the operators and keep their priorities in mind. Don't hesitate to use as many parentheses as you need.

You can use additional variables to shorten the expression (but it's not necessary). Test your code carefully.

Test Data

Sample input:

1

Expected output:

y = 0.6000000000000001
Output

Sample input:

10

Expected output:

y = 0.09901951266867294
Output

Sample input:

100

Expected output:

y = 0.009999000199950014
Output

Sample input:

-5

Expected output:

y = -0.19258202567760344
Output

```python
x = 100  
y = 1 / (x + 1 /(x + 1 /(x + 1/(x))))  
print("o valor de y é ", y)

```

# 2.6.11   LAB   Operators and expressions – 2
Scenario

Your task is to prepare a simple code able to evaluate the end time of a period of time, given as a number of minutes (it could be arbitrarily large). The start time is given as a pair of hours (0..23) and minutes (0..59). The result has to be printed to the console.

For example, if an event starts at 12:17 and lasts 59 minutes, it will end at 13:16.

Don't worry about any imperfections in your code ‒ it's okay if it accepts an invalid time ‒ the most important thing is that the code produces valid results for valid input data.

**Test your code carefully. Hint: using the % operator may be the key to success.**


```python
hour = int(input("Starting time (hours): "))
mins = int(input("Starting time (minutes): "))
dura = int(input("Event duration (minutes): "))

# calculate the end time in minutes
end_time = (hour * 60 + mins + dura) % (24 * 60)

# extract hours and minutes from end time
end_hour = end_time // 60
end_mins = end_time % 60

# print the result
print(f"End time: {end_hour:02d}:{end_mins:02d}")
```
#chatgpt 
>The `hour`, `mins`, and `dura` variables are read from standard input using the `input()` function. 
>To calculate the end time, we first convert the start time to minutes, and add the event duration to it. The result is then taken modulo 24 hours (in minutes) to handle cases where the event goes past midnight.
>Finally, we extract the hours and minutes from the end time using integer division and modulo, respectively. The `f-string` is used to format the output in the desired format.

[[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/chatgpt coding teacher\|chatgpt coding teacher]]

## 2.6.12 SECTION SUMMARY

1. The print() function sends data to the console, while the input() function gets data from the console.

2. The input() function comes with an optional parameter: the prompt string. It allows you to write a message before the user input, e.g.:

name = input("Enter your name: ")
print("Hello, " + name + ". Nice to meet you!")
 

3. When the input() function is called, the program's flow is stopped, the prompt symbol keeps blinking (it prompts the user to take action when the console is switched to input mode) until the user has entered an input and/or pressed the Enter key.
  Note  

You can test the functionality of the input() function in its full scope locally on your machine. For resource optimization reasons, we have limited the maximum program execution time in Edube to a few seconds. Go to the Sandbox, copy-paste the above snippet, run the program, and do nothing ‒ just wait a few seconds to see what happens. Your program should be stopped automatically after a short moment. Now open IDLE, and run the same program there ‒ can you see the difference?

Tip: the above-mentioned feature of the input() function can be used to prompt the user to end a program. Look at the code below:

name = input("Enter your name: ")
print("Hello, " + name + ". Nice to meet you!")
 
print("\nPress Enter to end the program.")
input()
print("THE END.")
 

4. The result of the input() function is a string. You can add strings to each other using the concatenation (+) operator. Check out this code:

num_1 = input("Enter the first number: ") # Enter 12
num_2 = input("Enter the second number: ") # Enter 21
 
print(num_1 + num_2) # the program returns 1221
 

5. You can also multiply (* ‒ replication) strings, e.g.:

my_input = input("Enter something: ") # Example input: hello
print(my_input * 3) # Expected output: hellohellohello
 



# 3.1 Section 1 – Making decisions in Python
[[0 - VAULT/1 NOTAS LITERAIS/ANELO/LATAM 2023 - 3.1 Section 1 – Making decisions in Python\|LATAM 2023 - 3.1 Section 1 – Making decisions in Python]]